Hi, good morning, everybody.
Thanks for coming out early in the
morning to talk with us about color.
I'm Ken Greenbaum.
This is Luke Wallis offstage,
and we're going to talk about what
you folks at developers have to do to
manage color for your applications,
both on the Mac OS X desktop as
well as iOS for mobile devices.
So first,
an introduction to color management.
Perhaps one of the big takeaway items
is that we at Apple color manage almost
all content that you see on the display.
It may be video, it may be graphics,
it may be animation,
it may be still image.
So we're going to talk about what that
really means to your applications.
And specifically,
we're going to talk today about what you
folk have to do in your applications,
whether using high-level frameworks
or low-level frameworks where
you have more responsibility.
And we're going to talk about what you
have to do to author your content in such
a way that it works correctly with the
color management and most importantly,
looks correct for your users.
Finally, and maybe most important,
we're going to tell you how to
manage maybe the subtle aspects
of verification to make sure that
color management is enabled for your
applications and that your media and
applications are looking correct.
I'll be talking about a lot
of the high-level topics.
Luke is going to follow up
with some of the details.
So as I mentioned,
Apple Color manages almost all the
content that you see on the display.
This is incredible because
it provides high-quality,
consistent results,
and that's exactly what
we want to produce.
And it produces those results
across all the different devices
and environments that users may
be using your applications in,
as well as the different devices
that they may be running it on.
What we're trying to do is
preserve the author's intent,
and we're going to talk more about that,
but that's really the key
to this whole process.
This is not just for pros.
It's not a professional feature.
While it's very nice for
authoring and proofing,
it also provides a tremendous amount
of value for those people using your
apps and consuming content as well.
So while Apple manages almost
everything on the display,
that's not true at all for
the rest of the industry.
Some applications,
most notably drawing apps,
maybe photo apps,
they provide color management,
but it's not consistent.
There is a form of color management
that's used in the broadcast TV industry.
Basically,
they author for a certain standard,
and then they expect receivers
to honor that standard.
We'll talk a little bit about that later.
So as developers,
it's important for you to understand the
philosophy behind the color management,
and then you folk can do the
right things and understand what
tradeoffs you're making and how
to set up your own applications.
So first, the creation of film, video,
images, and other forms of media,
that's a creative endeavor.
A specific implication of that is that
cameras are not scientific instruments.
They're not colorimeters,
they're not photospectrometers,
they're not supposed to.
For those that are familiar
with color management,
that means that our color management
is not what is known as scene-referred.
We're not trying to capture
reality and reproduce that,
the reality of the scene that
was actually photographed.
Rather, what we're trying to do is
reproduce this author's intent
that I've mentioned before.
By that I mean, what is proofed?
What did the author see on their
own display or output device?
So that's a form of
color management that,
generically, is called output-referred.
If they're proofing on a display,
it may be called display-referred.
So because of all the different
devices and environments,
there has to be some kind of active
signal processing performed that makes
the content look as close as possible
to what the author intended as possible.
We call that operation a color match.
It may have gamma conversion
and other processes that
Luke will describe in a moment.
So what do we mean by
a creative endeavor?
Here we are in paradise.
Well,
it's paradise until the cameras come out.
Then it begins looking like work,
and we have to worry about
how bright the environment is.
We have the cinematographer come out,
and then the cinematographer begins
twisting the knobs and basically
changing things from reality to
some form of heightened reality.
And this is the creative thing
that they're trying to capture.
Now, this isn't then what the camera
records isn't distributed to other
folks as the finished product.
Rather, it gets proofed,
and that's what we call
the authoring intent.
So that result gets viewed on,
if we're talking about broadcast video,
broadcast monitor,
in a very specific environment.
So for broadcast video,
it happens to be 16 lux
D65 studio environment,
and there's a director
that's looking at it.
And that director is making further
tweaks on it until it matches
the director's idea of what the
finished product should be like.
And then for video,
only then does it get distributed.
In this case, it's only intended to
be looked at on a TV.
And that TV is only intended to
be in a specific environment.
According to the standards,
it's basically this
1950s-era living room.
And in those days, lighting was dimmer,
so it was supposed to be a 16
lux dim surround environment.
Now,
modern usage is very different from that.
We're not looking at our
modern workstations or other
devices in our living rooms,
our dim living rooms.
We have big, beautiful, bright displays,
so we have to do something else.
And there are even more environments.
We have mobile devices that you
may look at outdoors in sunshine.
You may be looking at our
devices in dark surround,
in a theater kind of environment.
So clearly there has to be something
that makes that content look
appropriate on these different
devices in different environments.
And that's where color
management comes in.
So I have a lot of people who come
to me and they think that color
management is really this pro feature.
It's really about just getting very
simple hues looking exactly right,
things that general people wouldn't
be aware of or don't care about.
So I like to show them
this to talk about that.
This is a photo of my daughter.
The photo is taken in Profoto,
which is a professional color space.
It's very wide in terms of the gamut.
Luke will describe in a
moment what that means.
But suffice it to say that it can
capture very saturated colors.
It captures a lot of color.
We're rendering it in Preview.
Preview is color managed.
And I think even on this large projector,
you can see that her
outfit is pretty saturated.
You can see that there are saturated
colors on her mat and her ball.
Now, if you were to look at this
photograph in another application
that isn't color managed,
it may look like this.
Here we go.
And here you can see
it's clearly different.
And I'd say not only is it different,
but it's wrong.
Her outfit is very dim and washed out.
Her face doesn't look like
a healthy baby at all.
The colors, even her ball,
half the ball is supposed to
be this really vibrant red,
and it looks like this
dim orange in other case.
So without color management,
things are just wrong.
So I'm going to invite
Luke up to the stage,
and he's going to talk about controlling
color management using ICC profiles.
Thank you, Ken.
So a moment ago, Ken gave you an example
of color workflow.
Color data was acquired by the camera,
viewed and manipulated on the display,
and then distributed to the user.
Here's another very similar workflow,
which most of Mac users
are finding themselves in.
Most of our users have digital cameras,
have very nice Apple displays,
and a printer.
And a typical workflow for them is to
acquire the images from the camera,
do some elementary or even more
advanced adjustments to their pictures,
and print them.
And there is one common theme
between both of those workflows.
One very professional,
one just user of your application.
They both want to have a consistent
color appearance across devices.
So this is where I would like
to introduce the definition
of color management.
One of those definitions
says that color management,
as you can see,
is a controlled conversion between
different color representations.
And this very simple scenario in modern
world can be very quickly complicated
and many other things can be added to it.
For example,
user has some access to image archives
that he wants to combine with the
images he just acquired from the camera.
User has access to the web,
which is at this point almost
infinite source of color media.
The user not only wants to view it on
his own specific workstation or computer,
but also worries about presenting
that on other computers like
powerful workstations or laptop.
We have portable devices
like iPhone or iPad.
Color is also very important here.
And in addition,
we can add video to the mix,
which has slightly different
color management requirements,
but our goal is to make it kind
of uniform and the same for all.
So when we want to talk about
reproducing color on different devices,
we need to find a way of
characterizing the color
capabilities of any of those devices.
And Ken already mentioned
the term we are using,
as we call device gamut to
describe those capabilities.
[Transcript missing]
Obviously, I cannot do miracles.
My device, my laptop,
cannot physically reproduce it.
I have to do something with it.
In the case of the printer,
I just hit the edge of the gamut.
So, I can reproduce it a little
bit better than on the display.
In the case of the display, I have to,
let's say,
move this color to what is the closest
color in my laptop display gamut.
and this process we call gamut mapping.
Very often,
people think that gamut mapping
can do miracles almost and
reproduce the same color.
No.
We are limited to what device can do.
And that has significant consequences
in terms of organizing your workflow.
Obviously,
if you want to be proofing your content,
it is very important to have decent size
gamut on that device because otherwise
you may be looking at something which is
not correct in terms of original data.
[Transcript missing]
So now I'll give Mike back to Ken,
who's talking about
active color management.
Thank you, Luke.
Now we'll talk about what we do on
the desktop and what we do on iOS.
First thing we're going to talk
about is active color management.
And active color management
is a dynamic process.
It's something we apply to every
pixel in real time on every frame.
So what do we do with these pixels?
We perform the color match operation
that Luke has been talking about.
And we go from the source contents
profile space to the destination space
Possibly with an intermediate space
or a working space in between.
So that could be two color
matches for each pixel.
If you're dealing with still images,
then you could probably
do this on the CPU,
and certainly applications do.
But if you're doing this dynamically
to anything with animation,
any kind of video,
any kind of a dynamic application,
you want to be GPU-based or use some
other form of hardware acceleration.
On the other hand,
there's targeted color management.
In that case, we pick one color space,
and the media is matched to
that space at authoring time.
There may be hardware involved,
but that hardware is not
doing color match as per se.
It's trying to make that display act as
much like the target space as possible.
And targeted color management
is similar to what the video
industry has traditionally done,
where they either target traditionally
SD video or now HD video.
And this is sort of an
illustration of that.
The director was proofing on,
I called it a broadcast monitor,
but really in this illustration
it should be an SD monitor,
and it's only appropriate
to be viewed on the SD TV.
So, not surprisingly, on the Mac,
on OS X,
we're performing active color management.
Now, the logic is provided by
the ColorSync framework.
However, there are a number of frameworks
and applications that provide
GP-accelerated matching.
Those include the Windows Server,
Core Image, and Core Animation.
So active color management is
really all about flexibility.
It allows you to use any content
and view it on any display.
So certainly on a desktop where
you could have lots of different
display devices or other forms
of output devices like printers,
as long as your content was ICC,
basically tagged with an ICC profile,
and I should say you have an
ICC profile that describes your display,
then you're good.
On iOS, we are taking the targeted
color management approach.
In this case,
we're targeting the sRGB color space.
So your content is still matched to sRGB,
only this is happening
earlier in the process.
It's not happening dynamically.
It's happening during authoring.
And at the end of the presentation,
we're going to talk about
how to author for that.
So it's happening during
authoring on your Mac,
running OS X, and not surprisingly,
it's still being managed
by ColorSync in that case.
There's another place where
color management could occur,
and that's during syncing.
So when you sync content
to your mobile device,
that's an opportunity to
provide color management.
And in fact,
iTunes is providing that for you
when you sync content from iPhoto.
So for instance, if I have the photo --
the pro photo photo of my
daughter in my iPhoto library,
when that's synced to my mobile device,
iTunes is causing that to be
converted to sRGB so it looks
appropriate on that device.
There are a lot of advantages
for that for mobile.
The largest is that it saves
a tremendous amount of power,
and power extends runtime,
and we all want runtime.
It also unburdens very valuable
resources like the GPU to
perform other operations on.
And one thing that should really
be stressed is that you're getting
the same high-quality result.
You're getting the same match.
It's happening at authoring
time instead of dynamically.
What you're trading off is flexibility.
However, you're not taking the display
panel out of your mobile device
and replacing it with another one.
So I return to Luke.
And I'll be back up in a moment to
talk about authoring and verification
after Luke talks about theory.
All right, thank you, Ken.
Color technology,
color management technology
that we're using in OS X,
as Ken mentioned, is ColorSync.
Very quickly about ColorSync.
It consists of several parts.
Maybe you have heard about
the most critical part,
creating the color transfer I mentioned
to you and performing number crunching,
which is called CMM,
which stands for Color Management Module.
In addition to that mathematical part,
ColorSync has a database that
we call device integration.
Every device that is connected to your
Mac will be registered with ColorSync,
and if the manufacturer
provided factory profiles,
those will be registered with
ColorSync for usage when needed.
Also, user can assign custom profiles
to this specific device.
Also, part of ColorSync are profiles that
we are shipping with the system,
standard profiles for
different color spaces,
and user obviously can add his or
her own profiles to that database.
Since you're developers,
it is maybe interesting detail
to know that ColorSync provides
the plugin architecture for
color management modules,
and if you have one that you
want to use in your application,
there is a specific API to
invoke it and use it.
In OS X,
we are trying to provide all across
color management through all frameworks
that are processing color media.
We came up with several modern
frameworks to control that.
Here is the list that
I'll be talking about.
In addition to that,
the first and most important
thing for the user needs from your
application is the user interface,
which is provided by AppKit.
And AppKit is also
integrated with ColorSync.
We'll be talking about
details of that in a second.
Quartz has several different components.
The most important from the standpoint
of color management is Core Graphics,
which defines basic objects that allow
us to describe and process color.
The first one is CG color space.
Maybe we can talk here for
hours how to define color space,
but I think this very brief is very good.
You can think about color space
as an object that allows Quartz
to interpret your color data.
And color spaces can be
created many different ways.
There are a lot of APIs,
and here's one example.
You can also use a simple call
as create color space with name,
and the call that you see would
result in creating sRGB color space.
CG color spaces can be also
created directly from ICC profile.
Here's the call that does that.
Once I have color space,
now I can talk about what
is understood as CG color,
which means I define how
to interpret the values and
I combine them with the values.
That is CG color.
Here's a little sample
code how to create it.
Next one, very similar concept.
Once I have the color space
and I have a lot of data,
which is my image organized as an
array of pixels in rows and columns,
I know how to interpret those values.
And here is the call,
which emphasizes the most important
aspects of creating the image in CG.
And something new that I was not
talking about yet is CG context.
It is a concept that
represents drawing destination.
Once we have, on one part,
we created the color content
in form of an image or data,
and I want to rasterize the
render to my destination.
CG context is the abstract
that encapsulates different
types of those destinations.
The most significant difference
between different types of context
is that there are some that have
their own color space that will
be attached to your bitmap or to,
for example, to the window.
And there are those which
really do not require color
conversion because they are,
as we call them, recording context,
like PDF,
that allows you to specify many types
of different types of color data,
or PostScript that will create it
as a source and will hand off to
the color management in the printer.
Post-Crip Inter.
Context, CG context,
is this is really the place where
automatic color matching happens for you,
for a developer.
I can, having a context created
with a specific color space,
I can draw into it
content of many types of,
in terms of color.
So, for example,
I can create my sRGB context
and having a CMYK image,
I can draw it.
And I can composite that with
monochrome or solid color.
That's the model that we are
using based on PDF imaging model.
So, in this situation,
when the color space of the context
destination is different from my source,
Core Graphics will automatically
invoke ColorSync and perform
proper color correction.
As you see,
I mentioned here a reference that
I would like you to take a look at.
This is Quartz 2D Programming Guide,
and we also have sample
code called Image App,
which you can download from
developer.apple.com that shows
you how to use these objects
I just mentioned to you.
At this point,
I would like to step into a
little bit into the architecture.
Mostly,
understanding of that will help you to
perhaps correctly write your application.
We are talking here about the
backing store of the window.
In the other systems, on the old versions
of our system as well,
the contexts were attached
directly to the framebuffer.
In the recent releases,
we have something that we
call Window Backing Store.
And this is where the
context is connected to.
In default situations,
window context is tagged
with current display profile.
And if I have the context attached to it,
I can draw different types of
images and composite them together,
like sRGB image with
some dynamic range image,
and even monochrome,
and come up with something that
will look like this on the stage.
Very important point here is
that I mentioned that there is
a place to define a color space.
By default, it's a current color space,
but for certain cases,
that color space can be changed.
to the choice of application.
And this will have consequences that
I'll be talking about in a second.
[Transcript missing]
Next framework,
which is important from the perspective
of color management's image capture.
As you can guess,
this framework acquires images
directly from the cameras and scanners.
And because images are always
some kind of file format,
it's obviously mostly based
on image I.O., but has some
specific characteristic things
for color management that
I'd like to mention to you.
So still there are file formats that do
not have any color metric information.
And in order to process that,
we need to do something about that.
In the ColorSync device database,
we can keep a profile for that specific
camera that we know that does not
provide color metric information.
And ImageCapture will consult
that database if that would be
the case and assign that profile,
which means create a
proper CG color space,
and send it back to the application.
In certain cases, ImageCapture also does
conversion of images for display,
and I'll talk about this in a second.
Two major frameworks.
One of the frameworks parts
of ImageCapture is ImageKit.
That provides you all UI to
browse all ImageCapture devices,
their content,
and also display the images.
So that specific view, IK ImageView,
ImageKit ImageView,
will perform color management for
you if you want to display the image.
If another part is more down to
the core of acquiring images,
it's called ImageCapture Core,
and this one has just classes
that allows you programmatically
to do the same thing.
Browse the devices, browse their content,
and acquire images from
the camera or the scanner.
The reference I mentioned
here is ImageCapture
Applications Programming Guide.
Next framework I'll talk
about is AV Foundation.
In essence,
it provides very similar functions
as the previous frameworks.
It is still based on
core graphics to open,
display, and save video content.
It has its own classes that allow
you to do all this functionality,
but it's a little different
in certain aspects.
It's very critical that
when using this framework,
you set properly the output
settings for saving the video.
Here are a couple of examples of the
keys that you need to specify in your
settings dictionary when you do that.
Also,
distinct differences between the two.
The first difference between the other
frameworks is that CG image will be
saved as is in terms of color metric
information will be just recorded.
Using output setting dictionary,
you can have AV Foundation convert
your source that you acquire to the
format that you desire to be saved.
What is new in Mountain Lion,
there is a video toolkit which provides
new concepts of VT pixel transfer
session and VT compression session that
allows you to dig much deeper into both
color management and processing video.
And last but not least,
we're talking about AppKit before
being integrated with ColorSync.
This is the first thing that is needed in
your application to present the content.
AppKit automatically creates,
when the window is created,
this is where color management starts.
It assigns the proper backing
store to the window that
resides on a specific display.
And also, all the little widgets that
you're typically using in your
window are also color managed.
What is important to know is
how to bridge between AppKit and
the frameworks that I mentioned.
Most likely, you will need the CG context
into which you can draw using the
frameworks I described to you.
And here is the call
that accomplishes that.
As I mentioned, for special cases,
you can set the backing story
yourself in your application.
This is the call.
And one thing that I'd
like to talk about,
you can also, in a second,
register for display change notification.
User either can change the profile
going to the system preferences,
or the window will be moved
from one display to another.
How to use all these is
shown also in the image app.
But let's talk about this
display change notification.
So if I have a window that I draw
into using different kind of media,
and I'm ready for display,
everything is done,
the user may decide to move that
window from one display to another.
In what is happening now,
AppKit realizes that getting notification
from Windows Server that has happened,
it calls application to draw
from scratch everything.
This gives us a chance to do
rematching to the new display.
So the conclusion for
developer here is that,
pay attention to that,
if you're caching some information
that is kind of tied to the first
display you presented your content on,
you need to discard it and allow for
proper color management to happen.
So let's put this all together and
see what happens in the application.
This is a simple application that wants
to acquire the image from the camera.
So by using Image Capture,
The object of CG image
will be properly tagged,
will contain all the color metric
information in terms of color space.
If the application wants to
draw that image on the screen,
the only thing it needs to do is
to hand it to Quartz and not to
worry about what is the current
display at this moment and so forth.
The Quartz will do all that work.
We'll consult ColorSync about
finding the proper profile,
we'll perform color management,
and this image will be
displayed correctly.
Very similar situation if
you want to print that image.
You don't need to really know at this
moment which printer user has selected.
You hand it to CAPS, our printing system.
This will find out the proper
profile for the printer,
convert the data, and print the job.
Conclusion of this is that OS X is
offering implicit automatic color
management through the frameworks
which are integrated with ColorSync.
So in certain situations,
you don't need to do anything
about color management,
but all the images and devices have
the profiles associated with them.
You can dig into that,
extract the information,
and do some kind of higher-level
operations that would require that.
Well, besides that,
you still have certain responsibilities.
If you're creating your own content,
make sure that this is properly tagged,
that has the calibrated color information
in the images you're creating.
The contexts are fully specified.
In terms of CG context,
the only thing we need to is
to have the proper color space.
In video, there's a little bit more
details that you have specified.
Referring that to using
device architecture.
So, for example,
if you have a device that has
a color that is color-based,
you can use color-based RGB.
It's really something we try to
discourage as much as we can.
This is something which is legacy,
as I was trying to describe to you
in the previous part of the talk.
It is meaningless.
We really don't know
what are those colors.
So, and when device RGB is
processed by the system,
we don't know which
device you really mean.
For some people,
this debate goes for years already.
It goes to 20 years what to do with that.
Oh, the device RGB is some
average color space,
you know, decent display.
No,
device means I already managed the data.
Don't touch it.
So, when this comes as a source,
we really don't know what to do
and don't expect that it will be
consistent because different frameworks
make their own decisions about that.
Besides all those high-level
color-managed frameworks,
we have one that low-level that
is very important in graphics.
It's OpenGL.
By definition,
it doesn't have anything that deals
with color media in automatic fashion
like the ones I described to you.
So, if you're using that,
the developer is responsible for
tagging properly the buffers when
the data processed by the OpenGL will
be handed off to other frameworks.
And if there is a color
management required,
guess what?
You have to do it yourself.
[Transcript missing]
So now I'll turn back to Ken.
Thank you.
So now we're going to return
to how to author content.
We're going to talk about how
do you verify your applications.
And then finally we're going
to talk about what's new in
Mountain Lion related to color.
So we're going to return to our director.
You recall he was performing
what I call a proofing operation
on his broadcast monitor.
For you folk, we're recommending that you
use Apple desktop displays.
Desktop displays are better than
laptop displays for proofing at
least because they have a very,
very wide viewing angle.
Even as good as our laptop
displays are getting with some
of our announcements this week,
we still suggest desktop displays.
They're brighter.
They have a wide color gamut.
What we don't recommend doing is
using some of the third-party wide
gamut displays that are available.
Those things have, in some cases,
a tremendously wide color gamut.
They're beautiful to look at.
But unless you folk are very,
very sophisticated developers
when it comes to color management,
it's very easy to make mistakes.
With a wide gamut display,
the photo of my daughter could look great
even in an uncolored managed aspect.
But then when you got it into your actual
application and saw it on other displays,
it would look funny.
So please strive for a
consistent viewing environment.
Unfortunately,
that means forsaking windows.
In addition to the big difference
between sunlight and darkness,
the viewing-- your perceptions
of what you're viewing can
change really profoundly,
even when the sun ducks
behind a cloud momentarily.
It's nice to backlight your displays,
meaning have a light
illuminate the wall behind you,
and that wall should be some kind
of a neutral color optimally.
At the very least,
that reduces eye strain.
While calibration is
not strictly required,
as Luke mentioned,
at least for Apple devices,
the ColorSync database provides
a profile for our displays.
You still may want to calibrate,
and we provide a software
calibrator with the system.
So authoring content.
It's imperative to use
color-managed authoring tools.
All of Apple's tools are color-managed,
and some third-party tools are managed.
Usually when they are managed,
they're very sophisticated,
and you as developers and artists really
have to take responsibility to make
sure they're configured appropriately.
The most straightforward
configuration would be to use
basically sRGB for everything.
Now,
your source content can be in any format,
in any color space you like,
provided it's properly tagged.
But when you're authoring,
you want to author in sRGB.
That's actually a working space.
It means that even if your content
is wider gamut and your display
can display wider than sRGB gamut,
the application is going to be
narrowing that and mapping that to sRGB.
So, you want to use sRGB,
which is where you want to
eventually export it to.
So, of course,
you want to export to sRGB.
For certain circumstances,
if you have very high-value content and
your application's running on a Mac,
and of course your
application's color managed,
you may want to keep it
in its native format.
So we've been talking a
lot about tagging content.
I want to make sure it's
really obvious what that means.
Pretty much that's attaching
meta information to your content
that makes it self-describing,
at least from a color perspective.
For still images, that's the ICC profile
that Luke described.
For video,
it's this construct we call an NCLC that
describes the nature of the video space.
Sometimes for some formats,
there's basically bits in the
header or something like that
that describes color spaces.
Programmatically,
your image buffers may be
tagged with a CG color space,
and that's an opaque data
structure that actually contains
an ICC profile internally.
In terms of tagging in Mac OS X,
you should know that Apple tools will
automatically tag content they generate.
But that's not necessarily
true of other tools.
So again, as developers and artists,
it's your responsibility to
make sure that all your content
is tagged and looks correct.
And we'll be talking about that.
I'm going to run through three tools
that you can use really quickly.
So the first I'm sure
you've all used is Preview.
Preview is color managed, of course,
and it's a great tool
for opening your content,
making sure that it looks correct.
If you bring up the inspector,
you can actually look and make
sure that there's a tag attached.
That's the best thing because
you could be looking at untagged
content and it won't be obvious
if it was tagged or untagged.
And there's a subtle aspect to that, too.
Untagged content may look right.
Even non-color managed content may look
correct on your particular display,
but it's almost guaranteed to look
different on everybody else's display.
Color management not only
makes things look correct,
but it makes them consistent.
What some of you may not know
is that under the Tools menu,
there's an Assign Profile command,
and that allows you to basically
set the color space for an image.
And this is the tagging operation.
Now, this doesn't change the pixel values
in your buffer -- in your file,
rather.
What it does do is it changes the meta
information that's associated with it.
It tells the Color Management System how
to render those pixels.
So next up is the ColorSync utility,
and it's a very powerful utility.
I'm going to go through four
things that you can do with it.
The first is, again,
what we just talked about in preview.
You can assign a profile to image data.
But in addition to that,
you can perform a new operation,
a match operation.
And this is an operation that
actually modifies the pixels.
So for instance,
if I had my daughter's Profoto image,
that wide gamut image we saw earlier,
in ColorSync,
I could cause it to be matched to sRGB.
That means all the pixel values will be
converted to sRGB and saved in the file.
And then the file will then have an
sRGB ICC profile associated with it.
A pretty fun thing that it'll do is it'll
allow you to compare ICC profiles in 3D.
What wasn't obvious from Luke's
presentation earlier is that
triangular gamut that you saw.
That's actually not actually 2D.
In fact, it's 3D.
And what we're looking at in
the triangle is actually a 2D
projection of that 3D space.
So ColorSync will allow you
to turn the gamut around and
actually see what shape it's in.
And where that becomes
useful is comparing gamuts.
So for instance,
if you want to figure out if all
the colors in a certain image
in a certain color space can be
represented in another color space,
you can compare both of those in 3D
and you can spin the result around
and you can see if any stick out.
If any colors stick out,
those are colors that cannot be
represented in that second color space.
Then finally, for ColorSync,
there is actually a calculator that
allows you to perform color math.
And this is actually how Luke came up
with those RGB values that you saw.
How do you figure out what a
value in Profoto is in sRGB?
And that may be useful for you if
you're authoring RGB values for,
let's say, GL rendering,
and you want it to match
something that's color managed.
It may also be useful for creating
values for HTML or for the web.
So we've had a color profile
automator action for some time.
This allows you to set
an NCLC tag on video.
It allows you to tag video.
Whereas previously it only allowed
you to tag video files that
came from true video sources,
in Mountain Lion we've added the
provision that allow you to add
tags that describe RGB-based data.
For you QuickTime users out there,
you may remember things
like the animation codec.
So this way we bring animation
into QuickTime animation codec
into the color-managed world.
And there's a new P22 phosphor
that actually describes the old
color CRTs that were used on Macs.
Sips is a command line tool that
allows you to perform batch processing.
So if you have a whole
library full of maybe a 10,
100, 1,000 images that you want to tag,
this allows you to do it as a batch.
In this example,
we're doing a match to sRGB.
But if you read the man page,
you'll find out that it's a very
capable tool and it can do many,
many things.
So how do we evaluate the results?
There are three techniques I'm
going to describe quickly to you.
They involve using special tricks,
let's say, special test patterns,
special profiles that you can use,
and special content.
So we begin with this image.
It's actually a modified
version of the SMPTE color bars.
These things are available
in TechNote that's at the
end of the presentation.
Here we're rendering it
in QuickTime Player 10.
We're reading the value
back in digital color meter,
and we're looking at the 75% white value.
So 75% of an 8-bit value, 8-bit values,
max values 255 is 191.
Reading the value back,
we're reading back 198, 198, 198,
not 191, 191, 191.
There's color management involved.
Read the TechNote for more details.
Another technique,
and this is an extraordinarily
powerful technique,
is to use what we call a trick profile.
An example of that is the BGR profile.
It's a profile that purposely
swaps the red and blue channels
to make things look really funny.
So what you can do is you
can take that profile,
you can copy it to your
ColorSync profiles directory,
and then when you bring up
the display preference pane,
you can select it.
And the object is to make
things look really strange.
The things that look strange are things
that we know to be color managed.
So in this case, we've brought up Safari,
and we can see that the tag
content is color managed,
which is a great thing.
And in the course of
creating this presentation,
I looked at an early version of
the beta and saw that there's an
area that wasn't color managed.
When you zoom using the
two-finger pinch operation,
you can see that images
stop being color managed.
And then here's an animation
that sort of depicts that.
So you can see that it looks funny,
it's color managed,
and as soon as we begin zooming,
it pops back to looking normal,
which is not a good thing.
In this case, it's bad.
And I slowed the zoom way
down so you could see it.
And then when it finally stops,
it flips back to looking funny,
which is good.
So this technique is wonderful for
really sussing out some small mistakes.
Using trick content.
So this is special content with
a special trick embedded profile.
So there are a couple of places
where color management can be broken.
It can be broken at the side where
you're matching to the display device,
but it could also be
broken on the source side.
So if we look at this content in
a non-color managed application,
we can see that it's clearly wrong.
It says as much.
If you look at it in Preview,
which is a color managed application,
we can see that it's correct.
And you can use this content
in your own applications,
too.
This content's a part of the image
app sample that Luke mentioned.
So finally, what's new in Mountain Lion?
So as Luke mentioned,
don't use Device RGB,
but what we've done is we've
standardized what Device RGB does.
Now Device RGB always stands in as sRGB.
You may not be using Device RGB,
but it could be embedded in
legacy content that's out there,
so just be aware of that.
QuickTime Player 10 now
color manages all content,
whereas previously it only
color managed tag content.
What it does is it automatically
computes an NCLC based on the
assumption that it was video
that was exported via QuickTime.
So this fixes a big issue where
previously if you exported
classic content to a modern
content type like HI264,
the two used to look different.
Now they will no longer look different.
So if you don't like the
assumptions that we make,
by all means go and tag your content
to make the assumption permanent.
Finally, Final Cut,
not part of the operating system but
it was released in the last year,
is now color managed.
So whereas previously applications,
excuse me, video that was authored
in Final Cut would look
different when played in
QuickTime that was color managed,
now they look identical.
So just to review very quickly,
color management is extremely powerful,
but the verification can be subtle.
Be sure you author for sRGB,
make sure all your content's tagged,
and use these techniques
to verify your results.
You can get more information
at these sources.
These related sessions
have already passed,
but be sure to check them out online.